>> Jon Kuperman: All right,
we made it, we're performance experts,
not just kidding.
We'll go through that a lot more.
I do find it nice to take a quick pass and
then we'll circle back.
Console, okay,
most people's favorite one, yes, love it.
So it is a full REPL, as a lot of people
know, you could do like const a = hello,
and then you could do a and
get hello, that's very nice.
You can do all sorts of
JavaScript operations,
like math, you can kinda
quickly see things like that.
It's very, very nice.
It also interacts with the dom
in multiple cool ways.
So if we go to the elements and
we see that we've got this like nav class,
main nav, okay.
So from here you can do something
just like you'd be able to do in your
JavaScript code.
So you can getElementsByClassName,
and you could do main-nav.
And boom, we get this HTMLCollection, and
in that HTMLCollection is our main-nav.
So you can see when we hover over this in
the console, it highlights it in the HTML
just as though we were hovering
it over it in the HTML.
But there's some really cool things that
you can do, for example, we can go into
our elements page here and we can
click on something, let's say this h1.
This h1 that's like up here somewhere.
Okay, so we click on it, and it's now
saved in our kind of Chrome DevTools
history as the most
recently clicked on thing.
So later, if we're going ahead, and
let's go ahead and clear this for now.
>> Jon Kuperman: Clear, you can use these
magic kind of jQuery-looking numbers.
So you can do $number, and it'll bring
back the most recently clicked on thing,
that h1.
And you can do operations on it.
So you can do textContent = high, or
something like that, and
it'll actually change it.
And so you can have this really nice, deep
linked relationship between things that
you click on in the elements or
things that you select in the sources.
And then you can bring
them into the console and
you can do operations on them very nicely.
This works with,
I think up to five numbers or something.
So you click on the paragraph,
and then the div, and
then we can go back to console, and we can
see that the div is the most recent, and
the paragraph is the second most recent.
So you can kinda pull things in and
play with them.
It's really nice, you get this kind of,
full rep where you can call all sorts of
JavaScript methods on HTM L elements and
see them update in real time,
things like that.
So quite a lot of cool stuff
that you can do in here.
This is also where all of your warnings
and errors and logs will show up.
You can do quite a few cool things.
One thing that's nice is you can clear it
at any time, but you can also go ahead and
filter it in different ways.
So you can see this very nice,
top level thing.
We don't have any messages, we don't have
any errors, all that stuff, that's fine.
But if you wanted to, if you had a lot of
stuff and you really wanted to focus on,
let's say, just the errors.
You can filter it by going to default
level and you could deselect info and
warnings and just show the errors.
You can also get this kind
of nice issues screen here.
And so,
this issues screen will basically show
you a much more human readable
set of issues that it found.
So it says here that, page layout for this
page may be unexpected due to quirks mode,
and this is because it
doesn't have a Doctype HTML.
So for example, if I were to go into my
IDE and edit this page, and I were to go
to the top and just add this Doctype HTML
and hit Save, and then refresh.
We can see that the issue has gone away,
there's no issue.
So it's quite a lot of cool
stuff in this console.
The REPL is obviously great,
but being able to bring in and
interact with elements from the DOM,
I think, is very important as well.
Yeah, and quite nice.
Feeling good about console?
All right, console's great.
Okay, sources.
So this is essentially a full IDE.
I think that back when I
used to teach the course and
bundling was less the de facto norm.
There's some really cool things
you can do, like these workspaces,
where you can drag your HTML and
CSS and JavaScript in, and
then you can edit them in here, and you
can hit Save, and they'll persist to disk.
Which is a really cool thing.
I've stopped teaching that
in recent years because, And
I'm not saying this is a good thing, but
the reality is, I think almost all of our
apps these days have some kind of
build step or some kind of bundler.
That may not be true.
I mean, this project, for
example, is just HTML and CSS, but
I do find this persist to this thing.
It won't work with a build step cuz it
doesn't know how to find back the actual
source file, and therefore its kind
of usefulness is unfortunately,
kind of gone away over the years.
That being said, it's still really nice
to have an IDE where you can click on
any file, like we can click on our HTML,
and you can just have your normal place
where you can kind of edit things and
do what you will.
The persist to disk may not be as useful,
but
having a full IDE that is your actual live
code still has a lot of good usefulness.
And the other thing that we're gonna talk
about here is when we have a whole section
on is that this is also where
your step three debugger will be.
So if you add a debugger
line to your source code, or
if you set a break point in your Chrome
DevTools, this is where when it hits,
it will open up the Sources tab.
And you get all sorts of great
stuff on the right here,
where you can watch for
certain expressions.
You can view all your break points.
You can see the JavaScript
scope of where you are.
You can see the whole call stack and
you can walk it back and forth.
And you can do all sorts
of fancy break points,
you could do a thing like,
when we fetch my API endpoint,
break there, or when this HTML changes
of style attribute, break there.
You can do all sorts of cool break
points besides just lines of JavaScript.
Cool, how are we feeling about sources?
Good enough?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question,
just drawn saving your progress here.
So like you said,
it's similar to an IDE in some ways,
how do you practically save things
from here to your workflow?
Or is that always looking for an answer?
>> Jon Kuperman: I think the reality is
that if you have a complex workflow that
DevTools can't really figure out,
which I think is most of us at this point,
then saving your changes is
going to be very difficult.
I think that they do have a nice,
if you're in the workspaces, you can use
the workspace and then you can try to
export like a diff of the changes, right?
However, it's still gonna treat it
like there's one JavaScript and
one CSS file and it's still gonna be on
you to find the actual source code that
generated those things.
So I do think that this workflow,
whether it's persisting to disk or
at least just seeing what has changed,
has kind of gone away as more and
more of a disconnect between
the actual source code.
And a quick shout out,
I will say here, I mentioned earlier
that I work on the source
maps task group under TC39,
I would be incredibly open
to any kind of proposal.
I mean,
we have a lot that we can do there.
The bundler tools can stick stuff there
and the dev tools can read it or use it.
I would be very open if anybody had
interest in working on a proposal for
workspaces essentially, where you
could show your module graph, right?
I could think of an idea where you
could be like, okay, this style,
CSS is actually comprised of one, two, and
three dot CSS, and here's how they map.
I could see something
really cool being there.
It doesn't exist, but if somebody is
interested in working on something
like that, I think that would be a very
neat thing to get back to this kind of,
persisting workflow.
But I do think we've sort of lost it,
at least for now.